README.md, before:

# Unheard City

## About

This is a project to explore the Internet of Things through sonification. 

The current sounds can be heard in the [sounds](sounds) folder.

Other methods are being developed through the [methods](methods) folder. 

## Data

The data used in the sonifications is stored in the [data](data) folder.

Data was captured through an app on walks around the city of Coventry as part of the Sampling [Sounds of the Future](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/cim/research/sampling-sounds-of-the-future) project, funded by The University of Warwick Institute for Engagement and the [WIE City of Culture Programme](https://warwick.ac.uk/about/cityofculture/get-involved/programme/) and the Warwick-Monash Alliance Catalyst Project [Creating the Possible](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/cim/research/creating-the-possible/).

## Author

Iain Emsley < iain (dot) emsley (at) warwick (dot) ac (dot) uk >

## License

This UnheardCity data is made available under the Open Data Commons Attribution License: http://opendatacommons.org/licenses/by/1.0/

Commit message:

Updated the link with howto

README.md, after:

# Unheard City

## About

This is a project to explore the Internet of Things through sonification. 

The current sounds can be heard in the [sounds](sounds) folder.

Other methods are being developed through the [methods](methods) folder. 

The methods are being refined as doing things with this data in [how-tos](how-to ) folder. 

## Data

The data used in the sonifications is stored in the [data](data) folder.

Data was captured through an app on walks around the city of Coventry as part of the Sampling [Sounds of the Future](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/cim/research/sampling-sounds-of-the-future) project, funded by The University of Warwick Institute for Engagement and the [WIE City of Culture Programme](https://warwick.ac.uk/about/cityofculture/get-involved/programme/) and the Warwick-Monash Alliance Catalyst Project [Creating the Possible](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/cim/research/creating-the-possible/).

## Author

Iain Emsley < iain (dot) emsley (at) warwick (dot) ac (dot) uk >

## License

This UnheardCity data is made available under the Open Data Commons Attribution License: http://opendatacommons.org/licenses/by/1.0/
