docs/workshop/design.md, before:

## Design

The introduction mentions two approaches to sonification, as well as two closely associated fields. Sonification, like web science, is an interdisciplinary field. 

### Basic Designs

At a basic level, sonification design might look at:

* volume, 
* pitch, 
* tempo or beat, 
* direction (panning or spatial?)

or a combination of the above. 

Here you might think about the type of data to be sonified and the approaches, such as qualitative - such as categories - or quantitative - like discrete numbers or continuous values like time series. 

## Mapping Data to Sound

Once you have considered the above questions and thought what you are want to sonify, then you need to think about how the data is to be mapped to a sound. 

One way may be to assign a value to a note. A simple example might be the DNA sequence which is ACGT. 

You might make use of cyphers if you want to want to encypher the data, such as the Haydn cipher. (If this is of interest, listen to Olivier Messiaens' music.)

You might think about other approaches like earcons, audicons, or even samples. Here you are using more complex sounds and beginning to interpret sounds.  

What approaches might be useful in web science? 

Is this only temporal? Are there other relationships?

In an earlier workshop paper, myself and a co-author measured the packets on varying devices to think about how they work with the network (Emsley & Chamberlain, 2021).

### How might we want to present data?

We could use audio graphs, such as line charts to show relationships over time (Emsley, De Roure and Chamberlain, A, 2017).

You can also think about more in depth sounds, such as using noise for sonifications of networks (Emsley, De Roure and Chamberlain, A, 2017). 

Another way is to create layers of sound to contextualise data. In the UnheardCity work, sonifications of the data were overlaid with sound recordings to provide some context from the walk.

[https://unheardcity.org.uk/sounds/soundscape.html](https://unheardcity.org.uk/sounds/soundscape.html)

### Exercise

In this workshop, we will take the use the design mapping sheet (Ciuccarelli and Lenzi, 2020) and apply it to some data to work to design a sonification. It might be useful to apply some of the considerations from the [listening](listening) session to think about the potential effect of the audio representation. 

Other approaches are listed in the bibliography.

### Tools

You may want to use your own tools, if you have some. If not, [TwoTone](https://twotone.io) is a good starting point for experimenting and is available online. 

## Bibliography

Axon, L., Goldsmith, M. and Creese, S., 2018. Sonification mappings: estimating effectiveness, polarities and scaling in an online experiment. Journal of the Audio Engineering Society, 66(12), pp.1016-1032.

Campo, A.D., Frauenberger, C. and Holdrich, R., 2004. Designing a generalized sonification environment. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Auditory Display, Sydney. http://www.icad.org/websiteV2.0/Conferences/ICAD2004/posters/campo_etal.pdf, http://www.icad.org/Proceedings/2007/deCampo2007.pdf

Ciuccarelli, P and Lenzi, S. 2020. Data Sonification Canvas. DOI:10.13140/RG.2.2.20307.66084

De Campo, A., 2007, June. Toward a data sonification design space map. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Auditory Display (pp. 342-347).

Grond, F. and Hermann, T., 2014. Interactive Sonification for Data Exploration: How listening modes and display purposes define design guidelines. Organised Sound, 19(1), pp.41-51.

Emsley, I., De Roure, D. and Chamberlain, A., 2017, August. A network of noise: designing with a decade of data to sonify JANET. In Proceedings of the 12th International Audio Mostly Conference on Augmented and Participatory Sound and Music Experiences.

Emsley, I., and Chamberlain, A. (2021). Sounding out the System: Multidisciplinary Web Science Platforms for Creative Sonification. Companion Publication of the 13th ACM Web Science Conference 2021.

https://thealanchamberlain.bandcamp.com/track/unseen-in-sound

https://austgate.co.uk/2021/06/an-introduction-to-sounding-out-the-system/

Worrall, D., 2019. Sonification Design: From Data to Intelligible Soundfields. Springer Nature, Switzerland AG, Cham.

[<< Previous](listening)  [Next >>](resources)

Commit message:

Updated links and move bibliography

docs/workshop/design.md, after:

## Design

The introduction mentions two approaches to sonification, as well as two closely associated fields. Sonification, like web science, is an interdisciplinary field. 

### Basic Designs

At a basic level, sonification design might look at:

* volume, 
* pitch, 
* tempo or beat, 
* direction (panning or spatial?)

or a combination of the above. 

Here you might think about the type of data to be sonified and the approaches, such as qualitative - such as categories - or quantitative - like discrete numbers or continuous values like time series. 

## Mapping Data to Sound

Once you have considered the above questions and thought what you are want to sonify, then you need to think about how the data is to be mapped to a sound. 

One way may be to assign a value to a note. A simple example might be the DNA sequence which is ACGT. 

You might make use of cyphers if you want to want to encypher the data, such as the Haydn cipher. (If this is of interest, listen to Olivier Messiaens' music.)

You might think about other approaches like earcons, audicons, or even samples. Here you are using more complex sounds and beginning to interpret sounds.  

What approaches might be useful in web science? 

Is this only temporal? Are there other relationships?

In an earlier workshop paper, myself and a co-author measured the packets on varying devices to think about how they work with the network (Emsley & Chamberlain, 2021).

### How might we want to present data?

We could use audio graphs, such as line charts to show relationships over time (Emsley, De Roure and Chamberlain, A, 2017).

You can also think about more in depth sounds, such as using noise for sonifications of networks, like some earlier work on [JANET](https://iaine.github.io/janet/traffic.html). (Emsley, De Roure and Chamberlain, A, 2017). Two approaches are taken here: firstly, the noise of the traffic and secondly, a more audio graphic version with a voice over to contextualise the data.

Another way is to create layers of sound to contextualise data. In the UnheardCity work, sonifications of the data were overlaid with sound recordings to provide some context from the walk.

[https://unheardcity.org.uk/sounds/soundscape.html](https://unheardcity.org.uk/sounds/soundscape.html)

### Exercise

In this workshop, we will take the use the design mapping sheet (Ciuccarelli and Lenzi, 2020) and apply it to some data to work to design a sonification. It might be useful to apply some of the considerations from the [listening](listening) session to think about the potential effect of the audio representation. 

Other approaches are listed in the bibliography.

### Tools

You may want to use your own tools, if you have some. If not, [TwoTone](https://twotone.io) is a good starting point for experimenting and is available online. 


[<< Previous](listening)  [Next >>](resources)
